- Hey, everyone out there.
Thank you so much for being here today.
It's exciting to have you here in the live stream
or if you're watching later, watching the record.
So Sebastian, welcome.
It's great to have you part of this, Ask Me Anything.
In fact, it's your Ask Me Anything, really.
- Thank you, yeah, I'm excited to be here.
- Yeah, of course, I'll give my thoughts as well,
but you've done a lot of thinking about tooling
and putting the right tools together
and what maybe constitutes what you might call
a modern Python project,
or the tool chain of a modern Python developer.
And there's a couple of things
that we've already done together
that are maybe worth calling out
that we'll build on here today.
So a while ago, I guess, what was this?
Oh my gosh, this was back last year, August 29th, 2020.
You were on Talk Python, you came on and talked
about the modern Python developers toolkit.
And then we talked a little bit after that
and said, "You know, it would be really cool actually
"to put a course like this together for people."
So over at Talk Python Training,
you created the Modern Python Projects course.
This is almost a nine hour course
that takes a lot of the ideas you mentioned
there previously in the podcast and makes them concrete,
makes it something that actually people can employ and use.
And so yeah, those are some of the things
that we've done together before,
but we're just gonna take a broader view
and talk about what this whole idea
of modern Python projects might be.
So maybe, yeah, so let's just kick it off
with a quick high level overview.
Like what are your thoughts?
You know, what constitutes modern Python development?
How has it changed over time?
Things like that.
Then we'll get to the people's individual questions.
- Sure.
Yeah, so as you mentioned,
this whole idea started as a PyCon workshop
where I wanted to share with people some ideas
for tools that I've been using.
And I know that a lot of other people have been using
'cause I sometimes see people like start programming
in Python and they still stick to using
the default Python shell.
And they don't know about many great tools
that are in the ecosystem.
- So you're like, "Oh, I used Idle to try to run this."
And you're like, "Whoa, whoa, whoa,
please don't use Idle."
I mean, it's built in,
but there's really more helpful options these days, right?
Something like that.
- Yeah, I mean, Python is really cool
with the batteries included
'cause you have a lot of things there,
but at the same time, there are a lot of other different
tools and projects that can make your life much, much easier
and that's what I wanted to share with people.
- Nice, and I would like to point out
for people who maybe don't know,
there's a lot of amazing tools
that are not part of Python on purpose.
And the reason they're not part of Python
is not that they're amazing,
it's that Python releases, it used to be every 18 months
and now every 12 months.
And once something goes into Python,
it can't be taken out almost ever.
So it's very hard to move fast and break things
type of mentality with Python itself
and the standard library and so on.
But stuff outside of it can be much more rapid.
For example, there was a conversation around
with the core devs around making requests,
the package part of Python as a better way to do
because it's vastly a better way to do it than the built-in HTTP libraries.
They decided not to put requests into Python itself
because they said it would actually slow down and hamper requests
and make it less valuable, and it's better to leave it
as its own standalone thing.
And I think that touches on a lot of what you're talking about, Sebastian,
is that there's what's built into Python,
and a lot of it is really good, but oftentimes there's better things outside,
and they're not likely to be moved into Python
for their own good.
- Yeah, exactly.
And since installing new packages or tools in Python
is just one pip command away,
it's very easy to add new tools, experiment with them.
But at the same time, it's worth knowing
which tools are kind of like the,
backed up by the Python community,
like which one are the most popular.
- Right, what are the de facto primary ways?
- Just like pytest, for example, would be a case there.
- Exactly.
- Yeah, okay.
- Yeah, for example, I wanted to mention Cookie Cutter,
'cause if you're looking for a way to start a new project,
then you're wondering, no matter if it's a Django website
or if it's a Python module,
a lot of people know about Cookie Cutter templates,
and they are a great way to start,
because you use a template that many people use before you.
It has a lot of sane defaults already set up for you,
But if you never heard about cookie cutter templates,
there is like no way you're gonna randomly find it.
'Cause like cookie cutter doesn't even have Python
in its name.
So unless you know there is a tool for that,
there is like no way for you to find it.
- Right, exactly.
But it's so super helpful.
Okay, fantastic.
Well, we have a bunch of questions
from the ask us anything or ask you anything
that we've already gotten
'cause we sent out an email and said,
"Hey, send us your questions."
We're also, Norbert has a question here in chat,
the live chat, which would you like to go with first?
You wanna do the live chat question?
You wanna pick some out of our previous ones
so we make sure we get to them since they asked first.
What are your thoughts?
- So maybe go with the one that we got beforehand
because there are some interesting questions
that we picked up and I think they will be useful
to more people and then we will do the live chat.
- Yeah, all right, that sounds great.
So folks out there, please keep putting your questions
and follow up questions to what we're about to talk about
in the live chat and we'll get to them.
All right, so the first one is,
what's the point of setting up something like PieENV,
using VENV and so on, when you can just use Docker?
- Yeah, so--
- Maybe a little bit of background just for people
who are like not really sure what all these things are
and then the trade-offs.
- Exactly, so PieENV is a tool that you can use
to manage different Python versions on your computer.
So for example, if you want to have Python 3.6, 3.7, 3.8,
3.9 installed at the same time
and easily switch between them, you can use that.
And then VNV is a tool used to create virtual environments.
So it's a way to isolate the dependencies of your project.
So basically you would use PyEnv and VNV
to isolate Python and Python packages.
- Right, so Python is getting the version you want
and then VNV is isolating that
for a particular project, right?
- Exactly.
- Okay. - They work together.
And then the same thing could be solved with Docker
where you have like Docker image
that you use to spin Docker containers
and everything is isolated inside of it.
So you have a specific Python version
that you choose based on which Docker image you use.
And then inside this Docker container,
you install big packages and they are isolated
from both your computer and other Docker images,
Docker containers.
And so coming back to the question, I actually use both.
I use Docker in a lot of my projects and it's very convenient
and especially if you want to later deploy your project
or share it with your colleagues.
But at the same time, I don't want to spin up a Docker image
if I just want to run a Python script.
So I still use pyenv to manage Python versions
on my computer.
So I can use pyenv to install,
to change the global version of Python on my computer.
And I saw that it's already useful for me
'cause sometimes when I'm installing packages with Homebrew,
by the way, I'm using Mac,
so Homebrew is the package manager for Mac.
- Yeah, I use Homebrew as well.
And I think that's also part of the modern tool chain
is that you have something that updates your tools.
- Yeah, exactly. - Automatically, yeah.
- And then each time it's installing something,
I see that it's trying to install some Python version
in the background.
And at the beginning I was worried
because it was messing up the global Python versions.
But with PyEnv, I have Python versions
separated from my system.
So whatever Homebrew is messing up there,
I don't really care.
I have PyEnv that lives in a separate folder
and it modifies the system path variables.
So the separate folders are being read
before the system Python.
And that works in front of the homebrew.
So I don't really care what's the system Python
on my computer.
By the way, Mac is still using 2.7.
I don't care what homebrew is installing.
I have IAMP and that works really flawlessly.
But Docker is also really great
'cause if you want to start project
using a different Python version,
you just change one variable in the Docker file
and that's it.
- Yeah.
- So there are many benefits to using that.
Do you want to add something, Michael?
- Yeah, well, I think Docker is really useful
and I do use it some of the time,
but it's not the first tool that I reach for
Because a lot of times I don't need that complexity.
You know, if I'm going to say, fire up something like,
oh, I need Redis just like this,
and I need Celery like that,
and I need MongoDB like set up like that.
And then I want to just make
that whole package work together.
And I really would like it to be exactly on Ubuntu,
which is the way I run things in production.
Then I would definitely reach for Docker.
But if I just want to just develop one of my web apps
or some API I'm working on,
chances are running it locally is totally good.
and it's just fewer things in the mix to worry about.
So to me, a virtual environment
seems totally good for that.
To me, it's easy to see what everyone is super excited about
and then go, "Oh, I have to do that as well."
And that makes sense when there's enough complexity
or you're in the same sort of situation
that they're also excited about,
but it doesn't mean it applies everywhere.
Like if I just wanted to do basic Jupyter work
on something that I could run on my machine,
I wouldn't necessarily fire up Docker to make that happen.
- Yeah, exactly.
- I would also point out that this question is specific
about using Docker to replace Py and virtual environments.
And it's not about using Docker in general.
I think we have another question coming up later
about using Docker in general.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
All right, another thing worth pointing out
while we have this on the screen
is it doesn't work exactly on Windows, right?
But there is a pyenv-win, W-I-N.
Yeah. - Yeah.
So the question is, what's the benefit of using that
on Windows over say, Conda?
And I feel like almost it's like a general question.
What's the advantages of something like pyenv
plus virtual environments and pip over Conda almost?
- So I would say if you're using Conda on Windows
or whatever operating system and you are happy with it,
I don't really see any reason to switch to something else.
I mean, Conda is like this one huge tool
that you can use to manage both Python versions,
dependencies, installing packages and stuff like that.
So I would say, if you're happy, just stick with it.
But if you're not using Conda and for some reason
you don't want to use it, but you're on Windows
and you want to install different versions of Python,
then PyEnv Win is a great tool to do that.
'Cause unlike Conda, it's very specific.
It's just for managing Python versions.
it doesn't do a lot of other things that Conda does.
But if you're looking for this specific type of tool,
then I would stick with PyAndWin.
- Yeah, I think one of the things
that I would point out here is that the Conda packages
to some degree, and certainly the official Anaconda version,
not necessarily the Conda Forge version,
they do lag a little in version number
to what is out there.
You know, something gets published by the author
of that package to pip, the PyPI immediately.
And then eventually, you know,
once it's been verified to be working well and all that,
it gets brought into Anaconda.
And generally, that's not a big deal,
but sometimes if you want to be on the absolute latest,
there's a little bit of a delay.
And the place where absolute latest matters the most
is if there's a security vulnerability
in an API framework or a web framework,
you want to update, if something like that
were to come out, say with Django,
which has happened recently,
you would like to update to the new version immediately
before anybody starts poking around in those things.
And things like Honda and these other more verified places
sometimes lag behind.
And if it takes a little bit longer to get
the latest notebook, UI or whatever, who cares?
But if there's an active exploit
on the internet against my thing, excuse me,
then you definitely are going to want
the latest, latest, latest as soon as possible.
So I think that's one thing to consider
if that's your world.
I know that's something I've run into.
Yeah, all right.
Let's see, a couple of comments.
Let's take a couple of things out of the livestream comments
just because they're follow-ups, right?
So one question is, what's the best homebrew equivalent
for Windows.
I've got some thoughts, but go ahead, Sebastian.
If you got any.
- I'm not a Windows user.
I have no idea.
I've heard about Chocolaty,
but I only heard about it, sorry.
- Yeah.
So,
Encrusted says
Chocolaty, and then Scoop and Wingit.
I don't know about Scoop or Wingit,
but Chocolaty is very much like Homebrew,
and I'm familiar with that one,
and that one works pretty well.
So that's pretty cool.
So I definitely recommend if you're on Windows,
check out Chocolaty.
If you're on Mac, check out Homebrew.
And then, a lot of the Linux distributions
already actually have this, right?
Like apt on Ubuntu and so on.
You don't need to go searching for those
'cause that's the primary way.
Yeah.
And then, whoops.
Finally, Mike Levin says,
"The best Homebrew equivalent for Window
"is an Ubuntu repo under WSL."
Okay, that's an interesting one as well.
But yeah, so you also have WSL,
but then you have apt as well.
All right, cool.
Thank you everyone for that.
And we'll get back to some of the main questions as well.
So next one, Sebastian, is about poetry.
I've been using setup.py in my Python projects,
but I see a lot of tutorials recommending other tools
like pip, env or poetry.
Should you switch?
So basically Poetry and pipenv can be used to manage projects.
So they are much more than just like a setup.py replacement.
Actually, pipenv is not a replacement for setup.py,
but I will get to that in a moment.
So basically, those are like bigger tools
that you can use to manage your whole project.
You can use it to add dependencies,
to update dependencies.
They will manage the virtual environments for you.
so you don't have to activate anything and things like that.
And with Poetry, you can also publish packages to pip,
which is basically a replacement for setup.py.
You don't need to have setup.py with Poetry,
which is kind of convenient
'cause I always have to Google
what I should put in the setup.py.
There is also a package called fleet
if you want the lightweight replacement for setup.py,
but that's an off topic.
Yeah, so if you like using setup.py,
and again, you don't have a real reason
to switch to something else,
I would say stick with setup.py
'cause that's like the de facto way
of doing things in Python.
Setup.py is supported by Python itself.
There is also this project, Toml,
that is now supported with like recent PIP,
but for many years,
about .py was the way of building packages.
So I wouldn't just switch for the sake of switching,
but if you're looking for a tool that can manage
your whole project, then I would use either pipenv or poetry.
And if you want to publish, then I would go with poetry.
- Yeah.
And I think you also want to consider,
are you building a package or are you building an application
because some of the things that you do differently,
it's particularly around like pipenv,
is a little bit more targeted at building applications
than it is packages, from my understanding.
- Yeah, exactly.
And one thing to consider is that both Poetry and PIVENV
will be an external dependency for your project.
So if for some reason they break or stop being maintained,
then you're gonna have to migrate to something else.
While if you still use setup.py and requirements files,
then all the tools are there when you install Python.
It's not a big problem.
- Yeah, that's a good point.
But also, yeah, it's like a bootstrapping step
to get started.
So if you have set up PY,
you don't need to install anything else
to kind of like check it out and try it.
Whereas, you know, if you have Poetry,
the first thing you have to do with a new environment
is set up Poetry,
so then you can then initialize all the stuff, right?
- Yeah, exactly.
I think I was recording an episode for the courses
with Poetry and the first package that I wanted to add
was the latest pytest.
And the first command I got was an error
because Poetry already had an older version
of pytest pinned down.
So I had to like open the config file and remove it.
But the first impression was kind of weird
as you try to add the package and it breaks.
But otherwise I would say it's a good tool
if you like it, use it.
but keep in mind that it's yet another dependency for you.
- Okay, let me ask a follow-up
from Encrusted on the live stream.
What is the best way, if any,
for distributing Python applications to non-developers?
So this conversation of Poetry and pipenv,
all that is for developers, right?
- Yeah. - Yeah.
So what's the story on,
where's the icon thing I can put my doc
or pin to my taskbar and let people click?
What do I do there?
- Yeah, that's a good question.
I also covered this in the course
'cause I was also looking for a way
that you can distribute your Python application
with people who don't know what Python is.
And there is this PyInstaller package
that you can use to create an executable files
that contains all the dependencies.
And it works really great.
I was able to spin up a Windows machine,
create an executable, then spin up another Windows machine
without even Python installed, move it there,
and it was working fine.
It was using like a graphical user interface.
The only downside I saw is that they are not cross compilers.
So if you want to build an application for Windows,
you have to compile it on Windows.
If you want to build a Mac application,
you have to do the same thing on Mac.
But otherwise I would say PyInstaller is a really great way.
Yeah, we have a comment about that.
It's a really great way to build executable Python binaries.
- Yeah, I agree.
And so does Patrick Lobiel.
Hey, Patrick, thanks for that.
I'll also add one thing really quick to this.
I really, really quickly,
partly to show it as an example for people,
and partly 'cause this is a thing that I do all the time.
I built the little thing, a little Mac menu bar app,
100% in Python and distributed it as a .app file,
just like you all are talking about here.
So create this thing, it looks like this.
It does a few more things now,
but if you're copying some title
and you want to turn it to a file name
or you want to make sure you strip off stuff
or clean out the text before you paste it somewhere else,
I built this little thing that goes in the menu bar,
build it with Python and it runs with PyInstaller,
I believe, no, that uses Py2App actually,
is the one that it uses, I think.
So anyway, there's a couple of options,
but yeah, it's usually some variation
of what you need to do on Windows and on Mac,
and you actually have to have a Windows machine
and you have to have a macOS machine
in order to create those distributables.
So kind of a pain there.
- By the way, if someone is wondering
what's this Pi 2 app, 'cause I was checking this as well.
So there is Pi installer that can be used
for Windows, Mac and Linux distributions.
And there is this PI2 app that is like a PI installer
but for creating Mac application.
And there's also PI2Win, which is also again like a--
- PI2XE, right?
- Yeah, PI2XE.
That is like a subset of PI installer for Windows.
- I feel like they might be more specific,
like covering, adding things like icons and other stuff,
maybe a little bit better, I'm not sure.
For example, like this one, it has,
like an icon set that you create for it.
And the reason I chose PytoApp is it's,
this is based on Rumps, which is a ridiculously
uncomplicated like Mac notifications or something like,
I don't remember what the URL, the acronym stands for,
but it's 100% a Mac app.
So I figured I'd just use the Mac app builder thing for it
because there's no chance it's running on any other thing
'cause the framework itself is only for Macs.
So yeah, anyway, let's go to the next question.
Here we go.
Follow up to the above question,
which by the way is about setup.py
'cause we've been jumping around,
but the follow up to the recorded,
the pre setup question is which one should I choose,
pipenv or Poetry or something else?
- So I would say they are both very similar.
It's just that Poetry allows you
to easily publish packages on PyPI.
So if you're building a Python package,
I would go with Poetry.
If you're not building a Python package,
then I think both should be fine.
They offer a similar set of functionality.
- Okay, yeah, very cool, very cool.
Conda versus Pip.
We sort of touched on this a little bit,
but maybe a little more.
- Yeah, so that's an interesting question
because with Conda,
you install binaries from the Conda repository,
- Well, with PIP, you install packages from PyPI
and they are not always binaries.
So the main difference is when there is no binary.
So if there is no binary,
PIP will try to build this package from sources.
And if you're missing some dependencies on your computer,
then it's going to crash.
With Combat, there is no such problem.
- If you've done Windows and you see,
cannot find vcvars.bat, this is the problem.
If you're somewhere else and it just fails to install
something that looks like a C++ compile error, that's the problem.
And that's part of the problem what conda is trying to solve, right?
Exactly. So with conda, there is no such problem because
every package that is published in the conda repository is a binary.
So it contains all the dependencies which can be
super helpful if you're not like, if you don't have a computer science background
or if you're not very experienced with debugging this missing whatever you said,
- Thank you, Michael.
(laughing)
I don't know if you're a data scientist
and you just want to have your code running,
you don't care about setting up stuff,
you just want to install some packages and have it running.
Conda is an excellent choice because it has
like a very good support for all those data science packages
you just install them,
you have all the dependencies installed.
So it makes things much, much easier in that sense.
- Yeah. - On the other hand--
- Especially in the data science world
where there's really weird dependencies,
like you need a Fortran compiler.
Like I definitely don't have that on my machine.
- Yeah, on the other hand, as you already mentioned, Michael,
those binaries don't always have the latest version.
So someone first have to create this binary
and if there is like a vulnerability,
then you have a problem.
And there might be some like less popular packages
that are available on PyPI,
but no one created the binary for Conda.
So either you have to wait until someone does that
or you have to create it yourself.
'Cause with Conda you can also install packages from PIP,
from PyPI, but you basically have to build
a binary yourself.
So again, if you're not like very experienced developer,
you probably don't know how to do this.
So I would say like the benefit of using PIP
is that you can install any package from PyPI
while with Conda you can't,
but with Conda installing things is much easier.
- Yeah, I think that sounds like a pretty good summary.
It's worth pointing out that the workflow
is quite different from a virtual environment,
from Conda, right?
Like Conda, you create the environment
off somewhere magical with the name
and then you activate it by saying the name,
whereas it's more, you explicitly say this one here
in this location.
- So Mike Levin has a chat stream.
I'll go through here.
Thanks, Mike.
So Oconda was, he says only necessary.
I'll say was more necessary before pip included binaries,
specifically with wheels.
And now that wheels, it doesn't happen as much.
PIP can replace Anaconda now.
That's true, but Frankie One says,
"Yeah, but not everything has a cross-platform wheel
as well."
So I do agree with that.
for example, micro-WSGI, when I install that,
it seems to like compile away for a good 30 seconds
instead of coming with some binary version
that can just drop in or so on.
So yeah, anyway, that's, I agree, Mike,
that that's generally true,
that things are much better now that we have wheels,
but it's not, it's true also that it's not 100%.
What do you think?
- Yeah, I agree with that.
And one thing that I want to also add is that,
Well, we are talking about binaries and dependencies.
If you are, let's say, a web developer
and you're installing Django or FastAPI,
there is like very little chance
that you're gonna be missing some dependencies.
So you probably will never have problems with PIP.
So for most cases, for some cases,
using pip is going to be perfectly fine
for all your work life.
- Yeah, so it's the weirder farther out it gets.
Like I said, Fortran dependencies with some weird C library or something.
And then also Joan Pinole says,
"I've used PyInstaller for some side projects and it works really well."
Yeah, quite cool. That's definitely a neat option.
All right, Sebastian, on to the next.
"How do you hide secrets for development for production?"
We've talked about, I think, we haven't talked about it yet,
but there's shget, as in sh-secret, get,
which is quite unnerving to see shget going along here
and finding all the secrets that people have put
into public repos or what were private repos,
but then got turned public and people are pulling these out.
That's very much not good.
This is not what you want to do.
Just put the secrets right in your source code.
So what do you do?
What are your recommendations here?
- So my recommendation is pretty standard
to use the environment to hide the,
well, the secrets and start them as environment variables.
And for example, you can have like a file
with the YAML extension
and you can put it in the Git repository.
It's just, you don't put the secrets there.
You just put the structure
and let's say dummy values or whatever.
So you remember that you have to set up
all those environment variables.
- Right, that's one of the challenges
because if you put it in environment variables
or you put it in the,
some like secrets template.yaml versus secrets.yaml
where the secrets.yaml is not in the repository.
In a real project, there's gonna be a bunch of stuff.
You gotta have the names just right.
And you gotta, like knowing what you're even supposed
to fill out for the app to work is a challenge.
So having this template around is super helpful,
but not with the real secrets, right?
- Yeah, and there are some libraries that you can use
that will make managing those templates much easier for you.
And why am I saying about those templates?
Is that quite often when there is no template,
people start putting variables into the environment
and they spin up a new server
and they realize that they forgot
about some environment variables
and then things stop working.
So a good practice is to have this like
an example environment variables file
where you list all the variables that have to be set.
And then you have like a proper environment file
that you never put to the GitHub repository
where you actually specify the real secrets
and then you load it to the environment.
- Yeah.
And Crested has an interesting location.
Under a rock.
Under a rock, yeah, yeah.
- No, but then more seriously points out
that there are tools for keeping secrets
in version control too, like, you know,
certain vaults, right?
Like HashiCorp has something,
and we've had some sponsors who talk Python with,
and things where you basically set up
like the equivalent of one password or last pass,
but for your server, right?
- Yeah, definitely.
If you have to be more careful about your secret,
it makes sense to use an external tool.
But if a lot of those things can be mitigated
by setting up the API keys properly.
For example, if you have like API key for AWS,
you just limit what this account can do.
And that way you don't spin up.
If it leaks, then you don't spin up 1000 servers
mining Bitcoins for you.
And then you wake up with like $1 million debt
or something like that.
So there are different ways to mitigate
depends on what's the level of risk,
but the easiest thing is to use the environment.
- Yeah, yeah.
And you can combine them as well, right?
Like you could have an encryption key
in the environment variable
and then actually encrypt the other elements in ways
and then use instead of, you know,
'cause that way if it's just in the environment,
like you could log in, if you hack into the process,
you could just go, well, os.env, like what's in here?
Let's just look around.
If it's all full of encrypted stuff,
you're like, I don't have no idea how to unencrypt it.
So there's layers, right?
And obviously running your app as lower privileges
is really important.
Firewalls and isolate, there's like layers.
This is not the only thing,
but one of the things is not to put raw passwords
and API keys in your source code.
- Yeah.
- Cool, all right.
Let's talk Docker again.
Should people use Docker?
What do you think?
- Yeah. - More broadly.
- This is, yeah, exactly.
This is a more broad question than the first one we had.
It depends who you ask, because there are some people
who will tell you that you should always use Docker.
And when you start using Docker,
you should spin up a Kubernetes cluster.
And then you finally will be able to deploy
your almost static block there.
- Yeah.
- But don't listen to those people.
I mean, it really depends on what you're trying to do.
'Cause Docker has those amazing benefits
that it makes deploying your application much, much easier.
So especially when you want to scale something up,
it Docker really pays off.
Because for example, let's say you're deploying
your website for the first time,
then probably renting a virtual private server
and then installing a Django website there,
it's easier than writing a Docker file.
But if you want to scale your Django application
to like hundreds of machines with Docker,
it's much easier 'cause you always use the same Docker file
and spinning up 100 virtual private servers by hand,
it's probably not something that you want to do.
So there is a higher cost upfront
'cause you'd need this additional tool in your tool set,
but in the long run, it will pay off.
And another huge advantage of Docker
is that it makes collaborating with people much easier.
'Cause I remember back in the days
when I was joining a new team,
there were like some setup scripts
and you had to install some dependencies
and you had to set up some environment variables.
And then after two days,
you were finally able to start coding.
And now when I join new projects that are using Docker,
it's just two commands, Docker build and Docker run.
And you have this whole development environment running.
You have the website there, you have the database,
you have the ready server, whatever.
So it makes joining a new team much, much easier.
But on the other hand,
let's say if you have like a Python script
or like one off script that you want to, I don't know,
scrape some data from the internet,
there is like absolutely no point in adding yourself
more work to write a Docker file
if you know that you're going to be throwing away
this code like tomorrow.
So it depends on what's your use case.
If it's for like simple things, I wouldn't bother
unless you really like using Docker,
but for like more advanced projects,
it will probably pay off.
- Yeah, I was speaking with one of the
Talk Python listeners having a,
"Hey, what do you think about this?
"And how do we solve this problem?"
type of conversation.
And it was basically,
how do I make sure that everyone on my team
has exactly the same version of Python?
I wanna make sure that they're using 3.9.2,
not 3.9.3, not 3.9.1.
Well, you definitely don't want one
'cause that has that floating point vulnerability,
but you know what I mean?
Like you don't want variation,
you want exactly that thing.
If you really care down to that degree,
your Docker is great because then you just make everyone
run the same Docker image.
You provide it in some, I don't know,
local Docker hub type thing,
or just put the Docker file into version control.
And if it changes, then it just rebuilds and it runs
and off you go, right?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, so that helps a lot for that.
But I totally agree.
I wouldn't use it for like super simple things.
You're just causing yourself more challenges
and often it's not really that useful or that needed,
I guess is the way to put it.
So there's some interesting followups here
in the live stream.
In addition to under a rock,
Frankie one says,
I thought GitHub now automatically detects
when you commit secrets accidentally.
I think I did hear that it takes an attempt.
I wouldn't count on GitHub catching all of my secrets.
I would be more deliberate about it.
What do you, any, do you know anything about this?
- Not really.
I know that there are those bots that check
like for vulnerabilities and stuff like that.
So I would imagine that it also has a bot
to detect secrets in the comments
but I'm just wondering how it works
because when you push something to GitHub
it's automatically available there.
So does GitHub put some blocker on your repo
to not show the latest comment?
'Cause usually what I see people doing is that
they commit, they push a commit with a secret
and they realize they pushed that.
So they push another commit, removing the secret
but they're like bots running through GitHub
harvesting those.
So the moment you push it, it's already distributed
to some people or to Shigit.
- It's too late.
It's too late.
The stream has already been observed.
Yeah, it's really not good.
Related to this sort of follow on,
I think related to the Docker a little bit,
maybe in some ways.
So THP says, if you're not an expert Pythonista,
how do you manage supply chain,
tool chain attacks appropriately?
You wanna maybe give people an idea
what supply chain vulnerabilities are,
and then we could talk about this?
- I don't know what our supply chain vulnerabilities are.
- I'll give you the,
So for example, recently there were about 4,000 malicious packages
that were put into PyPI.
Then there was another vulnerability where if you're running a private PyPI server
so that you can have like, your team can publish and share packages
across applications and then often those will like fall through to the real PyPI.
So I could just say pip install requests, and it'll get the one from PyPI.
If I say pip install data layer, it'll get our local data layer.
Right, one of the vulnerabilities was
if somebody finds a way to publish your private name thing,
but to PyPI with a higher version number,
Pip would prefer that one and go give that,
but that might be one that has some sort of vulnerability
or something along those lines.
Right, so this, you know, maybe more,
like more concerning is in PHP,
somebody put in some code to run
that if you put the rhodium, I believe,
as a header, I think it was in the headers or no,
it was in the user agent.
If you put the word Zerodium and then some PHP code
in the user agent and request it against a PHP site,
which 79% of the internet runs on, I think a lot,
it would actually just run that arbitrary code.
So those are the types of things I think
that we're talking about here.
- That's a very good question.
And to be honest, I don't really know
how you can mitigate those kind of attacks.
'Cause like, yeah, the package name typos can happen
and there is probably not much you can do.
The only thing that comes to my mind is to use like a,
if you don't know how to solve those problems,
it's probably worth paying someone to take care of that.
So I don't know, maybe using Heroku
would be a bit more helpful.
I don't know how they can mitigate this stuff.
I know, what if I do my--
- Yeah, I got a couple of ideas.
None of them are perfect.
You can pin your versions.
So you can go and look at all the libraries you're using
and say, okay, I trust them as they are now.
And if you pin the version and your requirements.txt
or pyproject.toml or whatever,
you're not going to automatically get the latest version,
which may have some kind of vulnerability snuck into it.
So you can consciously decide to move to the next version.
Hopefully, if somebody were to hack into Django,
maybe that gets out, but it wouldn't last very long, right?
And so if you don't automatically upgrade
on just the next deploy,
then you're going to at least be a little bit better off.
So pin your versions, it's probably one.
You could whitelist, you can do things like set up
a private PyPI server and just whitelist packages.
So people can't arbitrarily install various things,
but they only install ones you approve.
You can use this thing.
You can use this as the sneak package advisor.
So if I want to learn about FastAPI,
like what's the story of FastAPI.
This is cool because it's not just security,
but it's more than just security.
Gives you like the health,
the maintainability level or how much it's maintained,
whether it has any known security issues,
whether community's active, whether it's influential,
all sorts of cool graphs about who's working on it,
when it's been worked on, amount of funding,
It's a security analysis by Snyk and so on.
So this is a pretty good thing.
So together, right?
So if I were to say, I'm going to pin my versions
and then those versions are going to be verified
or maybe I'm going to create a white list
and only allow you to install from the white list.
And I'll make sure that everything that gets
through the white list at least has been checked out
by Snyk.
It's not perfect, but it's better than just pip install
random thing and hope for the best.
So yeah, anyway, that's some of it.
Let's see.
Encrypted also follows on with,
is vendoring dependencies an appropriate mitigation?
Like instead of pip installing requests,
like finding the key bits of requests
and just copying that code into your application.
It certainly would help.
On the downside, if a non-intended vulnerability
were to get into requests, not a hack,
but just something that was a ultimately become a security hole,
you've now vendored in that instead of automatically getting the upgrade, right?
So I don't know, what do you think?
Yeah, I think it's easy to do this because you can basically
put the virtual environment folder with your project and that's it.
But in the long run, it's probably harder to maintain.
And I think as you said, like
pinning the dependency versions, making sure you don't have typos,
probably can save you from a lot of those problems.
- Yeah, be very careful when you pip install something
that you get the spelling right,
because there was one of those vulnerable ones,
it was something like asteroids versus asteroid.
I mean, it was like plural versus singular,
and that was it, right?
It's very subtle.
- Yeah, and I guess if you're using like
more popular packages, then you probably should be safe.
I would say like with some more obscure packages,
it can maybe happen that they will get abandoned
and someone will either hack the git repository
or like squat it.
I don't know if it's actually possible with PyPI,
but with bigger packages, it's probably not an issue.
- Yeah, for sure.
I think it's a relative thing.
So let's see.
Piling, hey, Piling, also says you can develop
in a VM or Docker and related to that, Doug Farrell.
Hey, Doug.
He says, really interested in how to set up
a Docker-based deployment environment
or development environment, excuse me.
So one of the things I think you want to distinguish here
in this supply chain thing is I'm trying something out.
And if it's going to run that setup high
when I pip install it, it could, you know,
pip install virus onto my machine.
If that's your concern,
you can develop in a virtual machine,
you can develop in Docker,
because then all it sees is what's inside the Docker machine,
which is nothing, basically.
So that's really cool.
But also as Encrusted points out,
if this is developing your application
and pushing it to production,
that vulnerability comes along on side the web server.
So that's a challenge, right?
So in this exploratory world,
I think things like Docker actually help a lot
to solve this problem.
But in a production world, it does nothing.
Nothing to help.
But maybe let's follow on real quick with that.
I think this development environment based on Docker
is pretty interesting.
For example, PyCharm now lets you set up a Docker image
as the run target, which you can even debug into.
And so you just press run and it starts the Docker thing,
it attaches to it, you just run it there.
I think VS Code also has something along these lines.
What do you think about this?
- Yeah, because I'm using VS Code.
I was trying to set it up with Docker some time ago
and it was possible to also like put the breakpoints there
and maybe like run, let's say a Django application in Docker
and have breakpoints work there.
It just requires a bit of setup,
but I would guess that either by now or soon in the future,
they will even, the guys from the VS Code
will further simplify it
because they just keep adding things
to make stuff easier there.
- Yeah. - So it's definitely
a viable option.
- Yeah, yeah, that sounds good.
Here is the,
in for PyCharm, right?
Basically configure an interpreter using Docker
and just press go and then boom, off it runs in Docker,
which is I think pretty awesome.
So yeah, people can check those kinds of things out.
All right, what else have we got here?
Yeah, some comments about this basically being so much about dependencies and stuff.
But I do think a lot of it really is...
It's like, how do you get the right libraries?
How do you keep those libraries up to date?
How do you do that securely?
How do you deploy those things out to the world?
How do you share that with the user?
So much of this stuff is a pretty interesting thing to talk about.
One follow-up here from Doug is,
"Are there resources or links that would help me and everyone
understand how to build a Django debuggable Docker environment.
I think actually the thing that I have on the screen here, if you're into PyCharm, is
one, I'll throw that into the live chat here.
I mean, that is, you know, click these three buttons and then press the debug button and
it runs in Docker.
Do you have something like this for VS Code?
So what I did, I checked the documentation.
I think VS Code was also using Django example as in,
Django as an example in the documentation.
So you would have to dig in their docs,
but they're pretty easy to follow.
But from the top of my head, I don't know anything.
- Sure.
Yeah, okay.
So let's see.
I think Incrested has a pretty interesting
comment, question here.
What's the story around code formatters, linters,
and type checkers, autocomplete got the better of them there
but no problem.
Yeah.
- Could you be more specific?
- Well, yeah, I'm guessing like, should you use black?
Should you use mypy?
Things like that I would guess, but yeah,
and Chris give us a follow up if you want.
- So I will start and you can clarify the questions.
I would say definitely use some of those tools.
- Definitely I would recommend using black
because well, some people don't like it,
it's opinionated and you might not like
how it formats some codes,
even though you can actually put comments
to disable formatting if you want to like preserve
your beautifully form a dictionary of list
of tuples of dictionaries and stuff like that.
But if everyone on your team is using code formatter,
no matter if it's black or if it's something else,
then at least during the code reviews,
you don't have some silly discussions about code styles.
And I had those discussions in the past
and they were terrible because code reviews should focus
on what's happening in the code,
not how the code looks like.
So definitely some kind of formatter is very, very useful.
Black is the most popular one.
It works out of the box.
So I would suggest using that.
And speaking of linters, I really like Flake 8,
but there's also PyLint and you can actually use both of them.
And even though I have like, I don't know,
eight years, nine years of Python,
I still, I think I'd still find some silly bugs
that I'm doing in the code.
And 'cause like sometimes you're tired,
you made like assigned to an undefined variables
and stuff like that.
So instead of like waiting for your code to actually run
and give you this error
because there is like no compilation.
so you can't get the errors beforehand,
you immediately can get those easy to spot errors for free.
So I'll definitely spend some time
adding them to your code editor.
And then you can keep going crazy
because like Flag8 has plenty of plugins
that you can further extend it.
You have a bunch of other static analysis tools.
I'm listing them in the course.
I think there is like a website
with the resources for the course
that you can find some cool plugins.
And there is stuff like, for example, sorcery,
that I really like that gives you some recommendations
of how to reformat your code.
For example, when you're writing a for loop
and it's basically building a list,
you will get a recommendation to use a list comprehension
showing you how this comprehension will look like.
So that's yet another tool that-
- Yeah, one of the things about sorcery
that annoyed me quite a bit is,
in the early days, it would recommend all these refactorings
and like nine out of 10, I'm like,
yeah, that's a great refactoring.
other times, like, no, this is a horrible refactoring.
Like, I don't want this change.
And I know the pattern I'm using is better than this,
even though you're programmed to think this is it,
and you couldn't disable notification.
So I just have this permanent, like,
mark of a warning on my screen for certain bits of code.
They recently added a way to add
for you to disable that on a per project basis.
So now I'm also all about sorcery.
Now that I can turn off the one or two refactorings
that I'm not a huge fan of,
And then the rest are really, really nice, like you say.
- Yeah, I didn't have this experience with sorcery.
I like it.
But as I said, there are like plenty of tools,
so you can check them out.
Each of them works in a slightly different way.
You can combine them, you can disable some stuff
if you don't like.
For example, I didn't like piling
because it was too strict.
Like when you had a class that had too many,
too little, too few methods, it was saying like,
well, this shouldn't be class and stuff like that.
- Right, but you're putting it there
'cause it's gonna get bigger in a month as the thing grows,
but you're like putting that flexibility in now
and it's gonna tell you, no, you shouldn't have it, right?
Which is not necessarily the case.
- Exactly, I mean, it's trying to make you write
the most beautiful code,
it's just sometimes I prefer my ugly code.
- Yeah, well, yeah, for sure.
And so a couple of other follow-ups,
Patrick Leville says,
"I love using black and flake eight with pre-commit."
Very cool.
So the thought, Doug had the same thought as I did
that what he really likes about ID is like PyCharm
and VS Code and the tools and plugins
is that they basically do this while you're writing code.
And to me, like I don't run Flake 8 separately.
I just use PyCharm with all its settings turned on
and it's super obvious if something's wrong.
And actually what I did when I redid all my stuff
with Sorcery, I went through like the 20,000 lines
of Python code that are talked by them training.
And I went and accepted every refactoring
that Sorcery was giving me,
except for that one that I don't like.
And then while I was going through,
I found there's a few PyCharm warnings
that I had been ignoring.
They were fine, but they're like,
you really should do this other thing.
And I just fixed everything
and got it pristine and perfect.
And so now I really pay attention to those warnings
because there's no like leftover junk warnings.
And I think that's actually a really big deal
about a lot of this.
And who was it over here?
Someone, I don't see the comment and maybe I'll find it,
but was asking basically, how hard do you enforce this?
Yeah, here you go.
And Chris it says, my pie and others should black
be hard enforced?
How strictly should you adhere to those?
Like, for example, do you break continuous integration
if some linter fails or something like that?
- Yeah, that's a very good question.
I think it's a matter of how the rest of the teams like it.
I work with some teams that were very reluctant
to use any of those tools.
I work with some team leaders that said that CI has to work,
your commit has to pass all the CI checks.
So it's a matter of reference.
I mean, tools are there to help you, not to hinder you.
So if some tool doesn't work well for you,
you should kind of configure it or maybe replace it.
- Sure.
So I know one question that we had.
kind of queued up and some people maybe a little bit
touched on it, but we haven't really talked about
the language hardly at all, have we?
Like using language features and stuff.
So what do you think about things like hypens,
like this, this kind of stuff?
- Yeah, that's another sensitive topic.
I would say they can be definitely useful.
I mean, if you, especially if you have like a lot of code,
some legacy code and being able to immediately see
what are the argument types that the given function takes,
what's the return value,
what's the type of the return value a function returns
in your code editor is super useful.
And even though with Python, we have duck typing,
so we can get quite far with this.
There can be some subtle bugs that type hints can help you.
But the thing with type hints is,
well, my problem with type hints is the same problem
as with test and documentation.
It's not strictly a problem,
but it's a yet another thing that you have to take care of.
I'm not saying I don't like writing type hints,
but for example, let's say you're writing code
and then you have to add test,
you have to have documentation and you have to have type hints
and then you code changes
and you have to update all three places.
Because it's not only about updating test
and documentation, you also have to make sure
that your type hints are updated
because you have wrong type hints, then they are useless.
And of course there are tools like mypy,
but they are external tools.
So you have to configure them.
And at the beginning, you'll probably have a lot of warnings
and stuff like that.
So I would say that type hints will give you back
as much love as you give them.
So if you spend time making sure
that the type hints are properly declared,
that you're not using any in all around your code,
and they are going to be very, very useful.
- Yeah, I absolutely love the type hints,
but I think you should remain Pythonic
as you think about using them.
So I think there's two blends.
One is you want to go down the mypy,
have the checkers completely verify
everything is absolutely hanging together
like C# or C++ compilers do.
Like it's 100%, this is an integer
and everywhere it's an integer.
So you like lay all that out.
That's one way of using these.
The other way, which is the way that I like,
is put them on the boundaries, right?
If I'm creating a package,
and I wanna put that package on PyPI,
it would be awesome if the public API of that package
all had type hints or type annotations.
Because then when I use it, I know automatically,
my editor knows automatically,
am I doing the right thing or the wrong thing
without having to constantly dive into the documentation?
Is this a string or a class that contains the information
that I'm supposed to pass for location.
All right, is that a quote, Portland, Oregon,
or is it a location object,
but those two things said, or a dictionary,
or what the heck goes in here, right?
Like those kinds of answers just go away instantly.
And when you're using it wrong,
your editors will like put some kind of squiggly
or something and say, no, no, you're using it wrong.
And I think that's the biggest value of type hints
is like right in those boundaries
where you may be unfamiliar with it or something,
it'll really communicate that across.
- Yeah, I wouldn't use type hints on like throwaway code,
but I usually try to start to add them
as my project grows bigger.
So for like small project,
it's easy to kind of understand what's going on,
but as it keeps growing,
it really pays off to start adding type hints.
- Yeah, for sure.
All right, we're getting short on our time here,
but I know there's a couple of people who got in right,
and we kind of skipped over it a little bit
just because we were getting to the pre-requested questions first.
But Patrick Lovile has one that I think is worth touching about.
What do you think that good Python GUI development...
Why do you think they're rare, especially for beginners?
Seeing a real UI is way more motivating than terminal output.
I agree that it is way more motivating,
and I also agree that we're quite short on good UI development,
GUI development options.
Sebastian.
- Yeah, same opinion.
I was never using a lot of GUI,
so I'm not very familiar how many tutorials are there,
but I was building one for the course
and I decided to use TKinter because it comes with Python.
And there weren't that many tutorials, you're right.
I found one that was very useful
because it was showing a lot of different
components of TKinter.
But apart from that, I would say there weren't many
showing you how to build some specific thing,
the GUI, like a specific project or something like that.
- Yeah.
I just dream of the days when we got something like VB6
or Windows Forms, it was in .NET,
where you just have a nice UI thing.
Oh, here's a button, here's a text box,
you put it over there.
You want code to run, you double click it.
you write the three lines of code, you go back to working.
Like you push a button, you get a thing
that you distribute to people's applications.
Like I don't really understand why we don't have
something like that in Python,
where it's sort of a visual layout, push a button,
it does something Pi installer magic or Pi to app magic.
Here's your app, give it to someone.
Like that would be transformative.
And we just, we don't have it.
I think it's a bit of a chicken and egg thing,
but you know, one can dream, one can dream.
All right, Norbert Kirkpatrick also talks
about some enterprise development stuff.
Is what's your take on things like Azure Active Directory
and security, DB encryption,
major cloud platform deployments and so on.
It's a bit of an open-ended one,
but what are your thoughts generally?
- I have almost no experience with Azure.
And yeah, as you said, it's kind of a broad topic.
So I don't really know what to say here.
- I'll throw a few things out there.
One, Azure Active Directory seems pretty interesting to me.
One of the things that's an ultra pain
is federated identity or trusting other people's identity.
Like if I wanna let all of your users
single sign on at your place
and then single sign on at my site,
like that's not an easy thing to do right now.
And I think Azure Active Directory makes that quite easy.
I haven't done a lot with it, but in that use case,
I think it's pretty useful.
I honestly don't do much with Active Directory at all,
like corporate accounts and like, you know,
building public web apps and things like that.
So that they don't make sense in that world.
Database encryption, very interesting.
There's a lot of levels of this data encrypted at rest.
Is it encrypted in memory?
Is it encrypted in the response?
You know, a lot of the modern databases
have like encrypted columns.
For example, MongoDB has different encrypted columns
you can have and then certain clients as they talk to it,
they either may or may not be permitted
to decrypt that column.
So it could return all the columns or values
without overexposing the data potentially.
And there's, I don't do anything like that,
but also encrypting backups, right?
Like, what do you think about,
I got to take a backup of the database, now what?
This is like the worst possible thing I could lose
is the backup to the database, right?
The only thing worse is letting people get access
to the live database.
I don't know, you got thoughts on that?
Do you have any recommendations?
I can tell people what I've been doing lately,
but it's not perfect.
- No, I will leave this question to you.
- Yeah, so I've been using encrypted volumes.
Like in Mac, you can create virtual encrypted volumes
that you can just open and close,
like highly, highly encrypted.
And so, but it appears as a drive.
So I've been doing my backups lately,
straight to that thing, and then closing the encrypted vault
when I'm not actively backing up a database.
So then I put that somewhere safe.
But if for some reason something were to happen to it,
at least what they get hold of is an encrypted vault
with a huge password that they probably can't mess with.
So I don't know.
Lots to think about, lots to be up late at night worrying
about.
Yeah, and then Vincent throws out there,
we have VB style and Anvil.
And yes, Anvil was certainly on my mind.
I didn't quite call it out, but.
- I forgot about it,
but then I remembered them from some conferences.
- Anvil is really interesting in that it has that.
It's the thing that's different here is what you get is,
Anvil is super neat,
but you do get a specific type of web application.
But if that specific type of web application works for you,
then they do have this VB style,
drag and drop, double click, run your code, which is absolutely beautiful.
But if I wanted like, I don't know, to build Todoist or one password in
Python, there's no real way to do that nicely, you know, let's see.
Yeah, good.
I think, I think one nice thing about Anvil is that it actually generates a
nice, nice code that is readable.
Cause the one problem I have with this, what you see is what you get text
editors is that I remember them from the time when you were building websites like that.
And the resulting HTML was an abomination. You just couldn't modify it by hand anymore.
So I'm worried that if we get tools like that for Python, it's also going to result in like
unreadable code. But I know that Anvil actually generates a pretty nice code.
Yeah. I remember some of the tools you would look at the, here's the auto-generated code.
and it was like, basically there's giant comments.
Don't touch this, don't try to read this,
just leave it alone.
Any attempt to mess with it
will probably just break everything.
Don't touch it.
Yeah, so cool.
Yeah, Doug also thinks Anvil is awesome.
Yeah, very cool.
And it used to be it had to run on the Anvil cloud.
I believe they've open sourced their runtime
so you can like self-host it and stuff.
That's worth checking out.
And then, I don't know, maybe this is the last comment.
I'd see maybe one more out there.
worth throwing out something out there.
But Kristen says, "Are there any courses out there
"that teach you how to get started
"with a lot of what we're talking about
"without any background knowledge?"
I certainly will give another shout out to your course,
Sebastian, Modern Python Projects,
over at Talk Python Training.
That is definitely a great course
that goes deep into all these things,
like nine hours of conversation of like,
here's my screen, let's go do these things.
Is it with no background knowledge?
I mean, you do have to know Python, right, to do this.
So basically what are the assumptions for your course?
- You have to know Python and that's it.
I show you a lot of those tools,
but I always start from scratch.
Like I even had like a empty macOS account,
so I made sure that I don't miss some dependencies
and stuff like that.
I also like spin up a Windows VM
for some parts that required Windows.
So I think you should be good with just knowing Python.
- Yeah.
Okay, a couple of real quick ones here.
Doug says, "Oh man, yes, Visual Python would be amazing.
I like Visual Basic."
I agree.
And then THP says, "Fman build system is a pretty cool."
Fman is a pretty cool UI in the Fman build system
for building those things up and distributed.
And that's pretty interesting.
I haven't done anything with Fman, have you?
- No, first time I heard the name.
- Yeah, it's like a file management tool,
I believe in Python, the person who created it
then also built this build system
and this UI on top of it.
So pretty interesting.
Let's see, there's another one from Joan.
Is Cort and its async capabilities ready
to level up Flask web apps for medium-sized enterprises
or currently better to stick with Flask?
I have no experience with Quart,
so I don't know, what about you, Michael?
- None.
I mean, I've talked, I interviewed the guy who did it,
and I've played around with it, and it seems okay,
but at enterprise, like, it's gotta be, you know,
five nines level of up, I've never run anything like that.
Honestly, if I was really, really looking to build a web app
with async capability, I would either look at
FastAPI or Starlet.
Like, I know people might think, oh, with FastAPI,
That's an API thing, not a web thing, but to be honest,
you know, it can be, definitely can be done.
And I actually built a whole class on how to take FastAPI
and sort of replace Flask with it.
So it's not that hard.
It supports templates, supports static files,
all those kinds of things.
It is super cool.
And yeah, thanks Norbert for the shout out
on the 10 apps course.
That's really a fun one.
But yeah, so I think actually,
If I was trying to go all in on async,
I feel like FastAPI is one of the best
async frameworks out there.
It's just, it all holds together really, really well.
So, yeah.
All right.
Anything else we want to cover?
Yeah, I think that that might be it.
Sebastian, you want to just maybe give us
some wrap up thoughts here on this whole idea?
- Well, thank you for coming and thank you for those questions.
They were really great.
And I hope we answered all of them.
And I don't know what else to say.
- Yeah.
Well, I think...
- Thank you, Michael.
- Yeah, I think, you know, there's so much variety.
I've worked in different technologies over the years.
I've been doing development like 25 years or so.
And some of the time you'll find some language or some ecosystem where there's a sort of
a central, like this is how you do things, like specifically in the Microsoft space with
.NET, I go, here's the one web framework you use.
Here's the one database ORM you use to talk to the one database you use.
And while that's really helpful, that like, well, now I know what to do.
I do these four things and I'm good.
This is the recommended way.
In Python, we don't have that.
And that's absolutely a blessing, but it's something of a curse as well, in that there's
this paradox of choice, right?
Oh, it's amazing.
We have this cool ORM library.
Oh, wait, there's 10.
Well, if there's 10 ORM libraries, which one should I choose?
And we're having this conversation, should we use Flask?
Should we use FastAPI?
Should we use court on top of Flask?
Should we use Django?
Like you can just go on and on and on about all the trade offs that you have to make.
And so I think one of the big challenges is choosing a path
and then going down it.
Choosing-- say, I'm going to use Poetry, Flask, MicroWizKey,
let's go, or something like that.
Whatever your branch that you happen to follow,
I think that's a big challenge.
And maybe I'll throw out one more thing for people
out there on the live stream, if I can pull it up quick enough,
is awesome-python.com, or awesome-python.com.
This kind of helps at least narrow that list, right?
So for example, if I'm interested in caching,
like here are probably the eight most popular
caching libraries that you might use
or something like that.
It's not perfect, but at least it gives you
some way to explore when you're totally new.
'Cause I think that that's one of the big challenges here,
Sebastian, is not that there are not enough choices,
but there are so many choices at each step of the way
that that's a challenge, right?
There's the T-shirt, I learned Python in the weekend.
It was, I learned Python.
It was a great weekend, right?
Like that's funny and also kind of true
at the language level,
but I don't know about how you feel Sebastian.
I'm still learning Python after so many years
and all day.
- Yeah, same here and like tools come and go.
I bet in like five years,
this list will be completely different than it is now.
So it's definitely important to spend some time
trying to figure out which tool you should use.
'Cause as you said, with Python,
you can mix and match different tools.
And sometimes there are like no tutorials
explaining how to do things.
Sometimes the tool might get popular,
but then it's abandoned and it's no longer maintained.
So yeah, I mean, a lot of tools to choose from.
- Yeah, I guess we'll leave with that.
There's a lot of tools to choose from,
and we've covered a bunch of options
and a lot of trade-offs here.
So Sebastian, it's been great to chat with you about that.
Thanks for coming on the live stream.
- Thank you.
Likewise, it was great to talk with you.
- Yeah, you as well.
And thank you everyone for all the questions,
those who emailed them in previously and the live ones.
It was a great conversation.
See you around next time.
- Thanks for coming.
Bye guys.
Thank you.
[BLANK_AUDIO]